---
title: "Ricker"
date: 2012-04-13 00:00:00
excerpt: "A gene analyzer of submergence tolerant factors in general rice types; demo of ISEF'12."
header:
  teaser: ricker_header.png
author_profile: true
gallery:
  - url: ricker_genotypes.png
    image_path: ricker_genotypes.png
    title: "Experimental genotypes of different rices"
  - url: ricker_metrics.png
    image_path: ricker_metrics.png
    title: "Metrics plot of submergence"
  - url: ricker_rtpca.png
    image_path: ricker_rtpca.png
    title: "RT-PCA result of analyzer"
---

<br>

Ricker is a laboratory tool for screening genotypes determining submergence-tolerant rice generations. 

This came accross with the work (*Submergence tolerance during rice seed germination: morphological response, genotypic difference and differential gene expression*) back to my high-school-age and awarded the silver medel of ISEF'12 which was one of the best result in Chinese delegation.

The project opened the gate of Computer Science for me inspite the layer of Biography. I learnt C++ during this phase and struggle to use *RCA (Independent Component Analysis)* to complete the ranking task which was way beyond high school acquirement. At the end of course, we filtered 8 gene out of 172 possibly related genetic classes.

---

Submergence tolerance during seed germination is an important trait for rice. In this study the influence of different depths and durations of submergence on rice seedling survival was evaluated. 

Submergence inhibited the growth of seedlings. The growth of roots was inhibited when submergence was treated for more than 4 d, whereas 1 d of submergence stimulated their growth. 

Seedling survival of all genotypes tested was apparently reduced when they were submerged with >5 cm water depth for 7 d. Seven submergence-tolerant genotypes at the stage of germination was screened from 102 rice cultivars by using submergence treatment with 8 cm water depth for 7d, and these genotypes are valuable resources for molecular breeding. RT-PCR analysis was performed with amylase genes *(RAmy3C, RAmy3D, RAmy3E)*, sucrose synthase genes *(Sus1, Sus2, Sus3)*, pyruvate decarboxylase genes (Pdc1, Pdc2) and ethanol dehydrogenase genes *(Adh1, Adh2)* using total RNAs from embryo tissues of submergence-tolerant genotype IR64 and submergence-intolerant genotype FR13A during germination and under the conditions of submergence and non-submergence. 

These results showed that *RAmy3D, Sus1 and Sus2* were expressed at high levels in embryo of submerged *IR64*, whereas they were either not or weakly expressed in embryo of submerged *FR13A*. High expression levels of *RAmy3D*, *Sus1* and *Sus2* that make submergence-tolerant genotype efficient in hydrolysis and utilization of starch and sucrose may be crucial for seed germination and seedling in rice.

---

Below is the snapshot of the experiment:
{% include gallery %}
