---
title: "LSNM"
date: 2016-11-07 00:00:00
excerpt: "\"Linux Network Security Module\" - an extension for network monitoring via Linux Security Module (LSM)"
header:
  teaser: lstm_header.png
author_profile: true
gallery:
  - url: lstm_pipeline.png
    image_path: lstm_pipeline.png
    alt: "The Logic Flow of EasyLSTM Pipeline"
  - url: lstm_generative_track.png
    image_path: lstm_generative_track.png
    alt: "Generative Track of an Aggressive Driver based on Historical Data"
---

<br>
[EasyLSTM](http://github.com/cullengao/easylstm) is a Deep Learning library framework for *LSTM* (Long short Term Mermory networks) built on Keras and Tensorflows for adepter learning of sequential sensor data. By abstracting every process into a module block, the framework empowers users with the least knowledge of Deep Learning to have a shot on their own temporal datasets with the least efforts.

The rationale was quiet simple:

In my previous [lab](http://ubicomplab.org/), my colleagues came from a various technique backgrounds from Psychology to UX Design, to Ubiquitous Computing. Not many of them have interplayed with ML (DL) methods before. However, according to my observation, the nature of our interests between human routines and computational devices incurred the most data to be temporal and sequential, making it a perfect match for LSTM modeling which, as far as I researched, has not been put into much usage within UCI realm.

As my research about remediation of aggressive driver within their driving session went on, I abstracted this work into a form of library. And so is it, the [EasyLSTM](http://github.com/cullengao/easylstm). 

Below is the pipeline logic of library itself, and its sample result to plot generative driving track based on an aggressive driver's historical data on new lanes that he has never experienced.

{% include gallery caption="Demo for EasyLSTM" %}

So far, it has been adopted in three papers' work which are going to be submitted in Ubicomp'12 including my remediation study.
