---
title: "EasyLSTM"
date: 2016-08-13 00:00:00
excerpt: "A library of LSTM (Long Short Term Memory networks) for handy temporal signal processing."
header:
  teaser: lstm_header.png
author_profile: true
gallery:
  - url: lstm_pipeline.png
    image_path: lstm_pipeline.png
    title: "The logic flow of EasyLSTM pipeline"
  - url: lstm_generative_track.png
    image_path: lstm_generative_track.png
    title: "Generative track of an aggressive driver based on historical data"
---

<br>
[EasyLSTM](http://github.com/cullengao/easylstm) is a Deep Learning library framework for *LSTM* (Long short Term Mermory networks) built on Keras and Tensorflows for adepter learning of sequential sensor data. By abstracting every process into a module block, the framework empowers users with the least knowledge of *DL (Deep Learning)* to have a shot on their own temporal datasets with the least efforts.

The rationale was quiet simple:

In my previous [lab](http://ubicomplab.org/), my colleagues came from a various technique backgrounds from Psychology to UX Design, to Ubiquitous Computing. Not many of them have interplayed with *ML/DL* methods before. However, according to my observation, the nature of our interests between human routines and computational devices incurred the most data to be temporal and sequential, making it a perfect match for *LSTM* modeling which, as far as I researched, has not been put into much usage inside the *HCI (Human Computer Interaction)* realm.

As my research about *remediation of aggressive drivers within driving sessions* went on, I abstracted this work into a form of library. And so is it, the [EasyLSTM](http://github.com/cullengao/easylstm). 

---

Below is the logic flow of library itself, and its sample result to plot generative driving track based on an aggressive driver's historical data on new lanes that he has never experienced before.
{% include gallery %}

So far, it has been adopted in three papers' work which are going to be submitted in *UBICOMP'17* including my remediation study.
